---
layout: default
title: Directory Structure
parent: Setup
---
# Directory Structure

```
ESP
├── EFI
│   ├── BOOT
│   │   └── BOOTx64.efi
│   └── OC
│       ├── ACPI
│       │   ├── DSDT.aml
│       │   ├── MYTABLE.aml
│       │   └── SSDT-1.aml
│       ├── Drivers
│       │   ├── MyDriver.efi
│       │   └── OtherDriver.efi
│       ├── Kexts
│       │   ├── MyKext.kext
│       │   └── OtherKext.kext
│       ├── Resources
│       │   ├── Audio
│       │   ├── Font
│       │   ├── Image
│       │   └── Label
│       ├── Tools
│       │   └── Tool.efi
│       ├── OpenCore.efi
│       ├── config.plist
│       ├── vault.plist
│       └── vault.sig
├── Kernels
│   ├── kernel
│   ├── kernelcache
│   └── prelinkedkernel
├── boot
├── opencore-YYYY-MM-DD-HHMMSS.txt
└── panic-YYYY-MM-DD-HHMMSS.txt
├── SysReport
├── NVRAM
│   ├── nvram.fallback
│   ├── nvram.plist
│   └── nvram.used
```

When directory boot is used, the directory structure used should follow the descriptions in the [Directory Structure](#directory-structure) figure. Available entries include:

- `BOOTx64.efi` or `BOOTIa32.efi`

    Initial bootstrap loaders, which load `OpenCore.efi`. `BOOTx64.efi` is loaded by the firmware by default consistent with the UEFI specification. However, it may also be renamed and put in a custom location to allow OpenCore coexist alongside operating systems, such as Windows, that use `BOOTx64.efi` files as their loaders. Refer to the LauncherOption property for details.
- `boot`
    Duet bootstrap loader, which initialises the UEFI environment on legacy BIOS firmware and loads `OpenCore.efi` similarly to other bootstrap loaders. A modern Duet bootstrap loader will default to `OpenCore.efi` on the same partition when present.
- `ACPI`
    Directory used for storing supplemental ACPI information for the [ACPI](/docs/ACPI/index.md) section.
- `Drivers`
    Directory used for storing supplemental UEFI drivers for [UEFI](/docs/UEFI/index.md) section.
- `Kexts`
    Directory used for storing supplemental kernel information for the [Kernel](/docs/Kernel/index.md) section.
- `Resources`
    Directory used for storing media resources such as audio files for screen reader support. Refer to the [UEFI Audio Properties](/docs/UEFI/audio_properties.md) section for details. This directory also contains image files for graphical user interface. Refer to the [OpenCanopy](/docs/UEFI/opencanopy.md) section for details.
- `Tools`
    Directory used for storing supplemental tools.
- `OpenCore.efi`
    Main booter application responsible for operating system loading. The directory `OpenCore.efi` resides in is called the `root directory`, which is set to `EFI\OC` by default. When launching `OpenCore.efi` directly or through a custom launcher however, other directories containing `OpenCore.efi` files are also supported.
- `config.plist`
    `OC Config`.
- `vault.plist`
    Hashes for all files potentially loadable by `OC Config`.
- `vault.sig`
    Signature for `vault.plist`.
- `SysReport`
    Directory containing system reports generated by `SysReport` option.
- `nvram.plist`
    OpenCore variable import file.
- `nvram.fallback`
    OpenCore variable import fallback file.
- `nvram.used`
    Renamed previous OpenCore variable import file after switch to fallback file.
- `opencore-YYYY-MM-DD-HHMMSS.txt`
    OpenCore log file.
- `panic-YYYY-MM-DD-HHMMSS.txt`
    Kernel panic log file.

Note: It is not guaranteed that paths longer than `OC_STORAGE_SAFE_PATH_MAX` (128 characters including the 0-terminator) will be accessible within OpenCore.